---
path: '/follow-your-dreams'
date: '2016-05-03'
title: "Life is Short: Follow Your Dreams"
published: true
---

I recently quit my full-time job as a hotel manager to pursue my dreams of becoming a web developer. That decision was not an easy one but I felt it was time to pursue my passion. I've always loved technology – both hardware and software. I remember playing colecovision with my friend back in the early 90's and playing "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego" on his parents' Mac II.

I began building PC's when I was 16 and to this day stubbornly refuse to purchase preassembled computers. My high school offered an HTML class which I loved and found fulfilling on many levels. I was given a technology award at my high school graduation because that teacher was so impressed with my coding prowess. All of this indicated that I should have focused my career in some tech-oriented direction.

At some point – and I'm not sure when it happened – I convinced myself that we live in a world where work and passion are mutually exclusive. It doesn't seem that most people are particularly passionate about how they earn a living. Strained by the pressures of life (rent to pay, kids to feed, etc), people don't have the luxury or time to make passion their work. My last three major jobs fit into this logic; they were unfulfilling but they paid the bills. On the cusp of turning thirty, I decided that this might be my final chance to make my dream a reality.

### Technological Addiction and Disrespect for the End User

In the wake of the NSA spying scandal, spurred by documents leaked by whistleblower Edward Snowden – or “traitor” depending on which side of the fence you sit on – I began to grasp the magnitude of how technological systems affect our daily lives. Computers, smartphones and a wide range of devices have permeated every aspect of our society. One could argue that our computers, laptops, tablets and smartphones have become extensions of ourselves. Society has a serious addiction to technology and that trend is only magnifying. The observable problem is that there is an inverse relationship between how rapidly technology is evolving and the degree to which the end user understands the technology.

Unless the end user spends a significant amount of time learning about the functionality of the technology in their life, they are sitting ducks. Even if the end user invests this time, many of the systems being utilized en masse are proprietary in nature and lack transparency. This “grand canyon” of knowledge has led to some egregious abuses of power by corporations and states. My desire to be a developer stems from my frustration around these abuses of power. I'm tired of being a metaphorical “fish in a barrel” and I desire to gain deep understanding and knowledge about the technologies we consume. I want to develop things that are respectful towards the end user and thanks to Ed Snowden, there is an increased demand for privacy and encryption-related technologies.

### Work Should Be Meaningful and Fulfilling

Deep down human beings have a desire to engage in meaningful and fulfilling work. We also have a desire to produce and have ownership over the things we produce. Most of the jobs I've had don't give me ownership over what I produce, they merely rent my labor. As a hotel manager I didn't produce anything physical. Rather, I was creating a hospitable climate for patrons of the hotel. At the end of the day there was nothing tangible that I could point to and say, “wow, I'm really proud of that work I did today.” The things that have brought me the most satisfaction in life have been things of artistic nature that I create. For example, in 2013 I took a road trip with my girlfriend through Europe and then made a video. Creating that video was highly fulfilling and the process of editing it fully engaged me. I get that same feeling of getting caught up in the process when I design websites or comb through Ruby code.

I recently quit my full-time job as a hotel manager to pursue my dreams of becoming a web developer. That decision was not an easy one and there was an internal tug-of-war that needed to resolved. I've always loved technology – both hardware and software. I remember playing colecovision with my friend back in the 80's and playing "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego" on his parents' Mac II. I began building PC's when I was 16 and to this day stubbornly refuse to purchase preassembled computers. My high school offered an HTML class which I loved and found fulfilling on many levels. I was given a technology award at my high school graduation because that teacher was so impressed with my coding potential. All of this indicated that I should have focused my career in some tech-oriented direction. However, I ended up studying economics in college and found myself doing jobs based primarily on convenience for the next 10 years.

At some point – and I'm not sure when it happened – I convinced myself that we live in a world where work and passion are mutually exclusive. Looking around, it doesn't appear that most people are passionate about how they earn a living. Strained by the pressures of life (rent to pay, kids to feed, etc), people don't have the luxury or time to integrate passion into their work. My last three major jobs were unfulfilling but they paid the bills. The silver lining is that those jobs financed my hobbies and allowed me to travel around the world (so not a total tragedy).

Prior to my decision to become a web developer, I got accepted into the New York Teaching Fellows program, which is a fast track to becoming a NYC public school teacher. The job would have essentially guaranteed my financial stability for the remainder of my life. The teachers union is notoriously strong and it provides teachers with excellent benefits, retirement packages and progressive salaries up to  more than 100k per year. All of that was indeed tempting. However, choosing that path would once again be choosing convenience over passion. I've done that and it's brought me no fulfillment as a human being. We only have one life to live and I'm tired of doing what everyone else wants for me. Declining the offer to become a teacher became the fuel for my fire as I pursue my new dream.

We have one life to live. If we find things to do that give us fulfillment, joy and meaning then we should do those things as much as possible. I don't want to look back at my life in twenty or thirty years and see a string of missed opportunities because I decided to choose pragmatism over passion. If you enjoy wood carving then become a wood carver. If you enjoy building cars then build cars. It's important to fight for your dreams. I'm a strong believer that if you follow your passion then the money will inevitably come as a side effect.
